       DRACULA




CHAPTER I

JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL

(_Kept in short-hand._)


_3 May. Bis-tritz._--Left Mu-nich at 8:35 P. M., on 1st May, ar-riv-ing at
Vi-enna early next morn-ing; should have ar-rived at 6:46, but train was an
hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a won-der-ful place, from the glimpse which I
got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the
streets. I feared to go very far from the sta-tion, as we had ar-rived
late and would start as near the cor-rect time as pos-sible. The
im-pres-sion I had was that we were leav-ing the West and en-ter-ing the
East; the most west-ern of splen-did bridges over the Danube, which is
here of noble width and depth, took us among the tra-di-tions of Turk-ish
rule.

We left in pretty good time, and came after night-fall to Klausen-burgh.
Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Roy-ale. I had for din-ner, or
rather sup-per, a chicken done up some way with red pep-per, which was
very good but thirsty. (_Mem._, get re-cipe for Mina.) I asked the
waiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a
na-tional dish, I should be able to get it any-where along the
Carpath-i-ans. I found my smat-ter-ing of Ger-man very use-ful here; in-deed, I
don't know how I should be able to get on without it.

Hav-ing had some time at my dis-posal when in Lon-don, I had vis-ited the
Brit-ish Mu-seum, and made search among the books and maps in the lib-rary
re-gard-ing Transylvania; it had struck me that some fore-know-ledge of the
coun-try could hardly fail to have some im-port-ance in deal-ing with a
no-ble-man of that coun-try. I find that the dis-trict he named is in the
ex-treme east of the coun-try, just on the bor-ders of three states,
Transylvania, Mol-davia and Bukov-ina, in the midst of the Carpath-ian
moun-tains; one of the wild-est and least known por-tions of Europe. I was
not able to light on any map or work giv-ing the ex-act loc-al-ity of the
Castle Drac-ula, as there are no maps of this coun-try as yet to com-pare
with our own Ord-nance Sur-vey maps; but I found that Bis-tritz, the post
town named by Count Drac-ula, is a fairly well-known place. I shall enter
here some of my notes, as they may re-fresh my memory when I talk over my
travels with Mina.

In the pop-u-la-tion of Transylvania there are four dis-tinct na-tion-al-it-ies:
Sax-ons in the South, and mixed with them the Wal-lachs, who are the
des-cend-ants of the Da-cians; Mag-yars in the West, and Szekelys in the
East and North. I am go-ing among the lat-ter, who claim to be des-cen-ded
from At-tila and the Huns. This may be so, for when the Mag-yars conquered
the coun-try in the el-ev-enth cen-tury they found the Huns settled in it. I
read that every known su-per-sti-tion in the world is gathered into the
horse-shoe of the Carpath-i-ans, as if it were the centre of some sort of
ima-gin-at-ive whirl-pool; if so my stay may be very in-ter-est-ing. (_Mem._, I
must ask the Count all about them.)

I did not sleep well, though my bed was com-fort-able enough, for I had
all sorts of queer dreams. There was a dog howl-ing all night un-der my
win-dow, which may have had some-thing to do with it; or it may have been
the paprika, for I had to drink up all the wa-ter in my carafe, and was
still thirsty. Towards morn-ing I slept and was wakened by the con-tinu-ous
knock-ing at my door, so I guess I must have been sleep-ing soundly then.
I had for break-fast more paprika, and a sort of por-ridge of maize flour
which they said was "mam-a-liga," and egg-plant stuffed with force-meat, a
very ex-cel-lent dish, which they call "im-pletata." (_Mem._, get re-cipe
for this also.) I had to hurry break-fast, for the train star-ted a little
be-fore eight, or rather it ought to have done so, for after rush-ing to
the sta-tion at 7:30 I had to sit in the car-riage for more than an hour
be-fore we began to move. It seems to me that the fur-ther east you go the
more un-punc-tual are the trains. What ought they to be in Ch-ina?